## ASVS



- Funcionalidad de la aplicación web implementada

Esta aplicación web es implementada como portal web para realizar pedidos de productos informaticos que vende la empresa através de este portal web.

- Identificar El nivel que corresponde a la aplicación implementada

Teniendo en cuenta que la aplicación web es para pedir productos online se puede englobar en el nivel 1 de la guía OWSP Application Security Verification Standard.



V1 Architecture, Design and Threat Modeling

Security architecture has almost become a lost art in many organizations. The application security field must catch up and adopt agile security  principles while re-introducing leading security architecture principles to software practitioners. Architecture is not an implementation, but a way of thinking about a problem that has potentially many different answers, and no one single "correct" answer. 

1.1.1 Verify the use of a secure software development lifecycle that addresses security in all stages of development. 



V2 Authentication 

Authentication is the act of establishing, or confirming, someone (or something) as authentic and that claims  made by a person or about a device are correct, resistant to impersonation, and prevent recovery or interception of passwords. 

2.1.1 Verify that user set passwords are at least 12 characters in length (after multiple spaces are combined). 

2.1.6 Verify that password change functionality requires the user's current and new password. 

Se ha elegido dos items ya que se considera que los dos elegidos son medidas importantes y necesarios.



V3 Session Management

One of the core components of any web-based application or stateful API is the mechanism by which it controls and maintains the state for a user or device interacting with it. Session management changes a stateless protocol to stateful, which is critical for differentiating different users or devices.

3.1.1 Verify the application never reveals session tokens in URL parameters. 



V4 Access Control

Authorization is the concept of allowing access to resources only to those permitted to use them. Ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high level requirements.

4.1.2 Verify that all user and data attributes and policy information used by access 
controls cannot be manipulated by end users unless specifically authorized. 



V5 Validation, Sanitization and Encoding

The most common web application security weakness is the failure to properly validate input coming from the client or the environment before directly using it without any output encoding. This weakness leads to almost all of the significant vulnerabilities in web applications, such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), SQL injection, interpreter injection, locale/Unicode attacks, file system attacks, and buffer overflows.

5.1.1 Verify that the application has defenses against HTTP parameter pollution 
attacks, particularly if the application framework makes no distinction about the source of request parameters (GET, POST, cookies, headers, or environment variables).



V6 Stored Cryptography

Ensure that a verified application satisfies all cryptographic modules fail in a secure manner and that errors are handled correctly, a suitable random number generator is used and access to keys is securely managed.

6.1.1 Verify that regulated private data is stored encrypted while at rest, such as Personally Identifiable Information (PII), sensitive personal information, or data assessed likely to be subject to EU's GDPR.

6.4.1 Verify that a secrets management solution such as a key vault is used to securely create, store, control access to and destroy secrets.



V7 Error Handling and Logging

The objective of error handling and logging is to provide useful information for the user, 
administrators, and incident response teams. The objective is not to create massive amounts of logs, but high quality logs, with more signal than discarded noise.

7.1.2 Verify that the application does not log other sensitive data as defined under local privacy laws or relevant security policy.

7.1.4 Verify that each log event includes necessary information that would allow for a detailed investigation of the timeline when an event happens.



V8 Data Protection

There are three key elements to sound data protection: Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA). This standard assumes that data protection is enforced on a trusted system, such as a server, which has been hardened and has sufficient protections.

8.1.2 Verify that all cached or temporary copies of sensitive data stored on the server are protected from unauthorized access or purged/invalidated after the authorized user accesses the sensitive data. 



V9 Communication 

The objective is ensure that a verified application meets the following high level requirements like: 

- Require TLS or strong encryption, independent of sensitivity of the content. 
- Avoid weak or soon to be deprecated algorithms and ciphers, except as a last resort.
- Disable deprecated or known insecure algorithms and ciphers.

9.2.1 Verify that connections to and from the server use trusted TLS certificates. Where internally generated or self-signed certificates are used, the server must be configured to only trust specific internal CAs and specific self-signed certificates. All others should be rejected.

9.2.3 Verify that all encrypted connections to external systems that involve sensitive information or functions are authenticated.



V10 Malicious Code

The objective is ensure that code satisfies the following high level requirements:

- Malicious activity is handled securely and properly to not affect the rest of the application.
- Does not have time bombs or other time-based attacks. 
- Does not have back doors, Easter eggs, salami attacks, rootkits, or unauthorized code that can be controlled by an attacker.

10.1.1 Verify that a code analysis tool is in use that can detect potentially malicious code, such as time functions, unsafe file operations and network connections.

10.2.2 Verify that the application does not ask for unnecessary or excessive permissions to privacy related features or sensors, such as contacts, cameras, microphones, or location. 



V11 Business Logic

The objective is ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high level requirements:

- The business logic flow is sequential, processed in order, and cannot be bypassed. 
- Business logic includes limits to detect and prevent automated attacks, such as continuous small funds transfers, or adding a million friends one at a time, and so on.



V12 Files and Resources 

The objective is ensure that a verified application satisfies the following high level requirements:

- Untrusted file data should be handled accordingly and in a secure manner. 
- Untrusted file data obtained from untrusted sources are stored outside the web root and with limited permissions.

12.1.3 Verify that a file size quota and maximum number of files per user is enforced to ensure that a single user cannot fill up the storage with too many files, or excessively large files.

12.2.1 Verify that files obtained from untrusted sources are validated to be of expected type based on the file's content. 



V13 API and Web Service 

Ensure that a verified application that uses trusted service layer APIs (commonly using JSON or XML or GraphQL) has: 

- Adequate authentication, session management and authorization of all web services. 
- Effective security controls for all API types, including cloud and Serverless API

13.1.1 Verify that all application components use the same encodings and parsers to avoid parsing attacks that exploit different URI or file parsing behavior that could be used in SSRF and RFI attacks. 



V14 Configuration

The objective is ensure that a verified application has:

- A secure, repeatable, automatable build environment.

14.1.3 Verify that server configuration is hardened as per the recommendations of the application server and frameworks in use. 

14.1.5 Verify that authorized administrators can verify the integrity of all security-relevant configurations to detect tampering. 



---

---

---

---

